<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!--
 * Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
 * contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
 * this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
 * The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
 * (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
 * the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 *      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 * limitations under the License.
-->

<ui:composition template="/main.xhtml"
                xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
                xmlns:tc="http://myfaces.apache.org/tobago/component"
                xmlns:ui="http://xmlns.jcp.org/jsf/facelets">

  <tc:section label="Migration from Tobago 3.0 to 4.0">
    <p>
      There are some migration steps to do, dependent on the application
      you want to migrate. The steps can be classified by
    </p>

    <ul>
      <li><tc:link link="" fragment="page:mainForm:taglib" label="Tag library"/></li>
      <li><tc:link link="" fragment="page:mainForm:markups" label="Markups"/></li>
      <li><tc:link link="" fragment="page:mainForm:layout" label="Layout Manager"/></li>
      <li><tc:link link="" fragment="page:mainForm:css" label="CSS / Bootstrap"/></li>
      <li><tc:link link="" fragment="page:mainForm:theme" label="Theme building"/></li>
      <li><tc:link link="" fragment="page:mainForm:crlf" label="CRLF in textarea"/></li>
      <li><tc:link link="" fragment="page:mainForm:resourceResolver"
                   label="Removed class: MetaInfResourcesClasspathResourceResolver"/></li>
    </ul>

    <tc:section id="taglib" label="Tag Library">

      <tc:section label="ViewId over attribute &quot;link&quot;">
        <p>
          Using the <code class="language-markup">link</code> attribute of
          <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:link></code>,
          <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:button></code>,
          <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:treeCommand></code> or
          <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:event></code>
          in Tobago 3 has three cases:
        </p>
        <ol>
          <li>
            External link to an URL e. g. <code class="language-markup">link="http://www.apache.com"</code>
            <p>
              Here is nothing to do.
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            Internal link to a resource e. g. <code class="language-markup">link="image/alps.png"</code>
            <p>
              Here you need to add the contextPath which might not be an empty string:
              <code class="language-markup">link="\#{request.contextPath}/image/alps.png"</code>.
              So, this is now the same like resources used over other attributes.
            </p>
          </li>
          <li>
            Internal link to a viewId e. g. <code class="language-markup">link="/intro.xhtml"</code>
            <p>
              In this case you need to use the new attribute <code class="language-markup">outcome="/intro.xhtml"</code>.
              Please use only full pathes here!
              This this, the GET parameter will be respected.
              This is needed e. g. for the windowId of <tc:link label="DeltaSpike"
                                                                link="https://deltaspike.apache.org/"/>.
            </p>
          </li>
        </ol>
      </tc:section>

      <tc:section label="&lt;tc:bar&gt;">
        <p>
          The content of <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:bar&gt;</code> needs to be checked.
          The layout inside of the bar has been changed by CSS.
        </p>
        <p>There is a new after-facet for right side content. Old code which uses
          <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:flowLayout align=right></code> probably doesn't work correctly.</p>
        <p>Replace the following code...</p>
        <demo-highlight language="markup">&lt;tc:bar>
  &lt;tc:flowLayout textAlign="right">
    // right side content
  &lt;/tc:flowLayout>
&lt;/tc:bar></demo-highlight>
        <p>... with this:</p>
        <demo-highlight language="markup">&lt;tc:bar>
  &lt;f:facet name="after">
    &lt;tc:flexLayout columns="1fr auto">
      // right side content
    &lt;/tc:flexLayout>
  &lt;/f:facet>
&lt;/tc:bar></demo-highlight>
        <p>Also new markups are added to change collapse/expand behavior and color scheme.
          For more information have a look at
          <tc:link label="tc:bar" outcome="/content/050-container/60-bar/Bar.xhtml"/></p>
      </tc:section>
    </tc:section>

    <tc:section id="markups" label="Markups">
      <p>Markups are now space separated. Instead of <code>markupOne, markupTwo</code> you can write
        <code>markupOne markupTwo</code>. Comma seperated markups are deprecated but still possible.</p>

      <p>Default markups are removed.
        The default markups had rendered specific CSS classes for required/readonly/disabled components.</p>
      <ul>
        <li><code class="language-css">.tobago-[componentName]-markup-required</code></li>
        <li><code class="language-css">.tobago-[componentName]-markup-readonly</code></li>
        <li><code class="language-css">.tobago-[componentName]-markup-disabled</code></li>
      </ul>
    </tc:section>


    <tc:section id="layout" label="Layout Manager">

      <tc:section id="flexLayout" label="&lt;tc:flexLayout>">
        <p>Column/row attribute values are now space separated. The '*' character is replaced by 'fr'.</p>
        <p>Instead of <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:flexLayout column="200px;auto;1*;2*;10rem"></code>
          you can write <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:flexLayout column="200px auto 1fr 2fr 10rem"></code>.</p>
        <p>The old syntax is deprecated but still possible.</p>
      </tc:section>

      <tc:section id="segmentLayout" label="&lt;tc:segmentLayout>">
        <p>Attribute values are now space seperated. Integer values now have the unit 'seg'.</p>
        <p>The old syntax is deprecated but still possible.</p>
        <p>The 12 columns of a segment layout are no longer filled up.</p>
        <p>Explained on the example <code>medium="3seg 4seg"</code>:</p>
        <ul>
          <li>Result in Tobago3: The first child of the segment layout spans 3 columns, the second 4 columns,
            the third 5 columns (filled up) and the fourth 3 columns again.
          </li>
          <li>Result in Tobago4: The first child spans 3 columns, the second 4 columns, the third 3 columns again and the
            fourth 4 columns.
          </li>
        </ul>
        <p>There are also two new 'auto' and '1fr' attribute values. For more information see
          <tc:link label="tc:segmentLayout" outcome="/content/120-layout/30-segment/Segment_Layout.xhtml"/>.
        </p>
      </tc:section>

      <tc:section id="gridLayout" label="&lt;tc:gridLayout>">
        <p>The attribute syntax for columns and rows has also been changed. See script below.</p>
      </tc:section>

      <tc:section id="sheet" label="&lt;tc:sheet>">
        <p>The attribute syntax for columns has also been changed. See script below.</p>
      </tc:section>

      <tc:section id="layout-script" label="Migration script for layout attributes">
        <p>Here is a simple <tc:link label="migration script" link="migrate4-layout.sh"/>, that may help you to change the layout attributes in the
          facelets XHTML files.</p>
        <demo-highlight language="bash"><tc:out value="#{sourceFileReader.getShellSource('migrate4-layout.sh', true)}"/></demo-highlight>
      </tc:section>

    </tc:section>

    <tc:section id="css" label="CSS / Bootstrap">
      <p>
        The included Bootstrap CSS library has been updated from
        <tc:link link="https://blog.getbootstrap.com/2016/10/19/bootstrap-4-alpha-5/" label="v4.0.0-alpha.5"/> to
        <tc:link link="https://blog.getbootstrap.com/2017/10/19/bootstrap-4-beta-2/" label="v4.0.0-beta.2"/>.
        Thought some changes need to be made, if you use Bootstrap classes directly.
      </p>
      <p>
        Some of the generated HTML code has been changed, mostly in these tags:
      </p>
      <ul>
        <li>
          <code>&lt;tc:menu&gt;</code>
        </li>
        <li>
          <code>&lt;tc:box&gt;</code>
        </li>
        <li>
          <code>&lt;tc:bar&gt;</code>
        </li>
        <li>
          <code>&lt;tc:segmentLayout&gt;</code>
        </li>
      </ul>
      <p>
        Here you may need modifications only, if you have own CSS with are related with these tags.
      </p>
    </tc:section>

    <tc:section id="theme" label="Theme building">
      <p>
        Building a theme is in general compatible, but if using the build mechanism of Tobago
        (defined in the pom.xml of tobago-theme) it can be better automated.
        The build mechanism now uses _tobago.scss from tobago-core to generated the CSS file,
        the is no longer a manual copy needed.
      </p>
    </tc:section>

    <tc:section id="crlf" label="CRLF in textarea">
      <p>
        CRLF in textarea will be converted to LF automatically to avoid inconsistencies with length validation.
        If you need the old behavior, set <code>&lt;decode-line-feed>false&lt;/decode-line-feed></code>
        in the <code>tobago-config.xml</code>.
      </p>
    </tc:section>

    <tc:section id="resourceResolver" label="Removed class: MetaInfResourcesClasspathResourceResolver">
      <p>
        The deprecated class <code>org.apache.myfaces.tobago.facelets.MetaInfResourcesClasspathResourceResolver</code>
        has been removed, because it was no longer needed since Servelt 3.0.
        You may remove this context parameter in your <code>web.xml</code>.
      </p>

      <demo-highlight language="markup">&lt;context-param>
    &lt;param-name>javax.faces.FACELETS_RESOURCE_RESOLVER&lt;/param-name>
    &lt;param-value>org.apache.myfaces.tobago.facelets.MetaInfResourcesClasspathResourceResolver&lt;/param-value>
&lt;/context-param>
</demo-highlight>

    </tc:section>

  </tc:section>

</ui:composition>
