<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!--
 * Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
 * contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
 * this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
 * The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
 * (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
 * the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 *      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 * limitations under the License.
-->

<ui:composition template="/main.xhtml"
                xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
                xmlns:tc="http://myfaces.apache.org/tobago/component"
                xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets">
  <ui:param name="title" value="#{overviewBundle.wysiwyg_editor}"/>
  <tc:section label="A WYSIWYG HTML Editor">
    <p>
      You can embed HTML editor in Tobago easily,
      but there is no HTML editor component in Tobago.
      The reason is, there a many web-based editors in the web available, with different
      licences, different features (and different bugs).
    </p>
    <p>
      So Tobago should not implement it's own HTML editor.
      But Tobago may embed an existing editor. Such an editor needs to comply with these requirements:
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li>License must be compatible with the Apache 2.0 license.</li>
      <li>Should be easy to integrate.</li>
      <li>Should have many features.</li>
      <li>Should have few bugs.</li>
      <li>Must be compatible to CSP (Content Security Policy).</li>
    </ul>
    <p>
      Unfortunately we didn't found the <em>perfect</em> editor.
    </p>
    <p>
      But that doesn't matter. You can choice you favorite editor and integrate it in your application.
      In this application there are two editors embedded as an example.
    </p>
    <ul>
      <li><tc:link label="TinyMCE" link="https://www.tinymce.com/" target="_blank"/></li>
      Is using LGPL license.
      <li><tc:link label="CKEditor" link="http://ckeditor.com/" target="_blank"/></li>
      Doesn't work with CSP activated.
      There is an issue #8584 in the
      <tc:link link="https://dev.ckeditor.com/ticket/8584" target="_blank" label="issue tracker"/>
      of the project.
    </ul>
  </tc:section>
  <tc:section label="About Security">
    <p>
      The application should be protected against invalid or malicious HTML content.
      If the application uses an HTML editor in the browser, an attacker is able to modify the clean code
      and submit malicious code.
      That must be checked on server side!
    </p>
  </tc:section>
</ui:composition>
