<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!--
 * Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
 * contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
 * this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
 * The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
 * (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
 * the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 *      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 * limitations under the License.
-->

<ui:composition template="/main.xhtml"
                xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
                xmlns:tc="http://myfaces.apache.org/tobago/component"
                xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets">
  <ui:param name="title" value="#{demoBundle.intro}"/>
  <p>This is the demo of Tobago 3.
    It shows the components and concepts of Tobago 3 and also should be a bit of a documentation.</p>
  <p>If you want to migrate from Tobago 2.0 to 3.0, you'll find further information in the
    <tc:link label="migration guide" link="/faces/content/10-intro/50-migration/97-migration/migration30.xhtml"/>.</p>
  <p>If you want to start this demo on you local machine, have a look at the section 'Local Demo'.</p>

  <tc:section label="Description">
    <p>Tobago is a user interface framework for developing webapplications.
      The technical basis of the framework is JavaServer Faces. The main core represents a theme oriented
      JSF Render Kit.</p>
    <tc:section label="Basic Controls">
      <p>Tobago provides all standard controls of HTML like inputs, textareas, radiobuttons, checkboxes and buttons.
        Additionally Tobago provides you with complex controls, which are not natively supportet by simple HTML,
        including sheets, trees and tabs.</p>
    </tc:section>
    <tc:section label="Validation">
      <p>The main goal of Tobago is the development of applications which are interactive from the users point of view.
        Tobago makes it easy to validate input and helps the user to enter correct data.</p>
    </tc:section>
    <tc:section label="Layout">
      <p>Tobago provides several advanced layout managers to fit for specific use cases by using CSS3 and HTML5.
        This includes a 12 columns layout from <tc:link label="Bootstrap" link="https://getbootstrap.com/"/>
        and a flex layout which replace the old grid layout from Tobago 2.</p>
    </tc:section>
    <tc:section label="Versioning">
      <p>The Tobago project using <tc:link label="semantic versioning" link="https://semver.org/"/> since past 2016.</p>
      <p>This will lead into more growing minor version number compared to the past.</p>
    </tc:section>
  </tc:section>

  <tc:section label="Local Demo">
    <p>In case that this demo already run on your local machine,
      you can follow the link to the
      <tc:link label="public demo" link="http://www.irian.biz/tobago-example-demo-3.0.x/"/>.</p>
    <p>If this is the public demo and you want to build it on your own, read the following instructions.</p>
    <tc:section label="Instructions">
      <p>First of all you need
        <tc:link label="maven" link="https://maven.apache.org/"/> (at least version 3.0.4) and
        <tc:link label="Java SE 6" link="http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/"/> or higher.</p>
      <p>After that, check out the source code from subversion repository.
        <br/>
        <code>svn checkout http://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/myfaces/tobago/trunk tobago3</code>
        <br/>
        Alternatively you can get the source code from the
        <tc:link label="download section" link="https://myfaces.apache.org/tobago/download.html"/>.</p>
      <p>Go to the tobago3 directory, and build Tobago with <code>mvn install</code>.</p>
      <p>Go to 'tobago3/tobago-example/tobago-example-demo' and start the demo with <code>mvn jetty:run</code>.</p>
    </tc:section>
  </tc:section>
</ui:composition>
