<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!--
 * Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
 * contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
 * this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
 * The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
 * (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
 * the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 *      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 * limitations under the License.
-->

<ui:composition xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
                xmlns:tc="http://myfaces.apache.org/tobago/component"
                xmlns:ui="jakarta.faces.facelets">
  <ui:param name="title" value="2 to 3"/>

  <tc:section id="m2to3" label="Migration from Tobago 2.0 to 3.0">

<p>
  There are several migration steps to take, dependent on the application
  you want to migrate. The steps can be classified by
</p>

    <ul>
      <li>Tag library</li>
      <li>Java API</li>
      <li>CSS</li>
      <li>JavaScript</li>
      <li>External components (for Java, CSS, Javascript)</li>
    </ul>

    <p>
      Most of these steps are relatively simple to carry out.
      Just replace "this" with "that" and so on.
      Some of them can be done with regular expressions.
    </p>

    <tc:section label="Tag Library">
      <tc:section label="JSP">
        JavaServer Pages are no longer supported. You need to migrate to Facelets as VDL.
        You may do that before migrating to Tobago 3.
      </tc:section>

      <tc:section label="Replacing tx with tc">
        <p>
          <code class="language-markup">&lt;tx:in label="a" fieldId="b" id="c" /&gt;</code>
          will be transformed to
          <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:in label="a" id="c" /&gt;</code>.
          The id of the input element in HTML is id="c::field".
        </p>

        <p> There is a little conflict between the "label" attribute used in the JSF spec. and the Tobago tx: label:
          Tobago means it should be displayed, and JSF spec. means that this should be used to display messages.
          In most cases there is no issue for that. But for the case that the application need a message label, but
          should not be displayed we need a new attribute:
        </p>

        <p> (preliminary) "labelPosition" or "labelLayout" with value "none"
          With this attribute we may advise the renderer also the position of the label.
          Or, using an attribute "renderLabel"...
        </p>
      </tc:section>

      <tc:section label="&lt;tc:time&gt; -> &lt;tc:date&gt;">
        You need to set the <code class="language-markup">&lt;f:convertDateTime type="time"\/&gt;</code>
        inside the <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:date/&gt;</code>.
      </tc:section>

      <tc:section label="&lt;tc:cell&gt;">
        Replace all <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:cell/&gt;</code>
        with <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:panel/&gt;</code>.
        Dependent of the used layout manager, these tags may be dropped completely.
      </tc:section>

      <tc:section label="Layout manager no longer as facet.">
        <p>
          The layout managers are no longer a facet of a container.
          They are in the tree hierarchy explicitly.
        </p>
        <p>
          Old:
        </p>
        <demo-highlight language="markup">&lt;tc:panel&gt;
  &lt;f:facet name="layout"&gt;
    &lt;tc:flowLayout/&gt;
  &lt;/f:facet&gt;
  ... content ...
&lt;/tc:panel&gt;</demo-highlight>
        <p>
          New:
        </p>
        <demo-highlight language="markup">&lt;tc:flowLayout&gt;
  ... content ...
&lt;/tc:flowLayout&gt;</demo-highlight>
      </tc:section>
      <tc:section label="&lt;tc:image&gt;">
        <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:image/&gt;</code>
        has no longer the attributes <code class="language-markup">width</code>
        and <code class="language-markup">height</code>, please use a
        <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:style/&gt;</code>child tag instead.
      </tc:section>
      <tc:section label="&lt;tc:sheet&gt;">
        tc:column with f:facet name="dropDownBox" can now easily and much more flexible implemented with
        the header facet of the tc:sheet. Example:
        <tc:link label="Sheet Filter"
                 outcome="/content/080-sheet/50-filter/Filtering.xhtml" />
      </tc:section>
      <tc:section label="Menu">
        The Menu tags tc:menu, tc:menuBar, tc:menuCommand and tc:menuSeparator are no longer available and
        needs to be migrated to tc:links or tc:bar or tc:buttons with tc:link and tc:separator inside.
      </tc:section>
      <tc:section label="Popup">
        The popup was implemented new, using a general concept of collapsible in Tobago.
        <tc:section label="&lt;tc:popupReference&gt;">
          This tag is removed.
        </tc:section>
        <tc:section label="&lt;tc:popup&gt;">
          The tc:popup tag is no longer a facet of a command. The tag can be put anywhere on the page.
          The open/close commands now can be used flexible
        </tc:section>
        Example:
        <tc:link label="popup"
                 outcome="/content/130-collapsible/10-collapsible-popup/Collapsible_Popup.xhtml" />
      </tc:section>
      <tc:section label="facets">
        <tc:section label="action">
         Replace <code class="language-markup">&lt;f:facet name="action"&gt;</code> with <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:event event="load"&gt;</code>
        </tc:section>
        <tc:section label="change">
          The <code class="language-markup">&lt;f:facet name="change"&gt;</code> and the attribute <code class="language-markup">renderedPartially</code> are replaced by <code class="language-markup">&lt;f:ajax&gt;</code>,
          use <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:event&gt;</code> instead of <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:command&gt;</code>
        </tc:section>
      </tc:section>

    </tc:section>

    <tc:section label="Java API">
      <tc:section label="ActionListenerImpl">
        Class is no longer present, you should use a JSF 2 exception handler instead.
      </tc:section>
      <tc:section label="Renderer classes">
        The API of the RendererBase class has changed a bit.
        Also the automatic renderer selection has been dropped.
        If you write your own renderer for existing classes, you now need to register it in
        the faces-config.xml as usual in JSF.
      </tc:section>
      <tc:section label="Typesafety">
        <p>
          To have typesafe code many Java classes to provide constants are migrated to Java enums,
          e.g. <code>org.apache.myfaces.tobago.component.Attributes</code>.
        </p>
      </tc:section>

    </tc:section>

    <tc:section label="CSS">
      <tc:section label="Bootstrap">
        Tobago 3 uses the great <tc:link label="Bootstrap" link="http://v4-alpha.getbootstrap.com/"/> CSS library.
        Currently in version 4.0.0-alpha.5.
      </tc:section>
      <tc:section label="Class names">
        Because of the use of the Bootstrap lib, some Tobago CSS classes are no longer needed, and
        has been
      </tc:section>
      <tc:section label="box-sizing">
        Changed from content-box to border-box.
      </tc:section>
    </tc:section>

    <tc:section label="JavaScript">

    </tc:section>

    <tc:section label="External components and dependencies">
      <tc:section label="File upload">
        <tc:section label="Servlet API 3.0">
          Tobago 3 requires Servlet API 3.0. Tought the file upload uses
          <code class="language-java">javax.servlet.http.Part</code>
          instead of <code class="language-java">org.apache.commons.fileupload.FileItem</code>.
        </tc:section>
        <tc:section label="Filter">
          You no long need to define a TobagoMultipartFormdataFilter in the web.xml.
        </tc:section>
        <tc:section label="Dependencies">
          <p>
            There is no longer a tobago-fileupload.jar.
          </p>
          <p>
            Remove the dependency to commons-fileupload.jar in your web app, if there is any.
          </p>
        </tc:section>
        <tc:section label="FacesServlet Configuration">
          If using JSF 2.0 or 2.1 you will need to add a tag <code>&lt;multipart-config&gt;</code>
          Tag to the FacesServlet config in the <code>web.xml</code>. Since JSF 2.2 this is not needed.
        </tc:section>
        Example:
        <tc:link label="File Upload" outcome="/content/010-input/90-upload/File_Upload.xhtml" />
      </tc:section>

    </tc:section>




    <!-- todo: refactor from APT to HTML -->

<pre>

  <b>TODO:</b>

    Because of the changed layout model (no longer on the server, but with browser CSS) there a some
    classes, methods and parameters removed.


    * AbstractUIPage.getActionPosition()

    * AbstractUIPage.setActionPosition()

    * class Box

    * class Dimension

    * class Position

    * ClientProperties.pageWidth

    * ClientProperties.pageHeight

    * <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:gridLayoutConstraint&gt;</code> -> <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:span&gt;</code> (only for attributes columnSpan and rowSpan)

    * <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:gridLayoutConstraint&gt;</code> -> <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:style&gt;</code> (all other attributes)

    * <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:toolBar&gt;</code> -> <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:buttons&gt;</code>
    * <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:toolBarCommand&gt;</code> -> <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:button&gt;</code>

    * If using <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:page&gt;</code> with the attributes state, width, height: remove the attributes

    * TODO: use ExternalContext.redirect instead of AjaxUtils.redirect

    * Replace <code>AjaxUtils.getRequestPartialIds()</code> with
    <code>FacesContext.getPartialViewContext().getExecuteIds()</code> or
    <code>FacesContext.getPartialViewContext().getRenderIds()</code> respectively.

    * TODO: Move data from ClientProperties to TobagoContext

    * TODO: Replace <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:columnEvent&gt;</code> with <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:row&gt;</code>

    <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:mediator&gt;</code> removed

    If you need a Tobago component to set e.g. some style in a renderer as a replacement,
    use a simple <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:panel&gt;</code>.

    Tango Icons

    Tango icon lib is no longer part of Tobago. Replaced by Font Awesome. If you need it, please
    include it in the application.

    Dependencies to JS/CSS libs: jQuery UI

    Tobago uses the jQuery UI library. The library is customizable to limit the amount of JS and CSS content.
    You will find the used modules in the header of each jQuery UI file.

    * E.g. Tobago 2.0.10 contains jQuery UI 1.10.4 with these contents:

    * jquery.ui.core.js

    * jquery.ui.widget.js

    * jquery.ui.mouse.js

    * jquery.ui.position.js

    * jquery.ui.draggable.js

    * jquery.ui.datepicker.js

    * jquery.ui.slider.js

    * jquery.ui.core.css

    * jquery.ui.datepicker.css

    * jquery.ui.slider.css

    * jquery.ui.theme.css

    * Tobago 3.0.0 contains jQuery UI 1.12.1 with this component:

    * widget.js

    If you are using jQuery UI directly, you may add the required resources via the tobago-config.xml
      and exclude the jQuery UI resource that comes with Tobago.

</pre>

    </tc:section>

  </ui:composition>
