<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!--
 * Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
 * contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
 * this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
 * The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
 * (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
 * the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 *      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 * limitations under the License.
-->

<ui:composition template="/main.xhtml"
                xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
                xmlns:tc="http://myfaces.apache.org/tobago/component"
                xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets">
  <ui:param name="title" value="#{demoBundle.release_checklist}"/>

  <tc:section label="Release Checklist (Developer Info)">

    <tc:section label="Step by Step">

      Checklist of tasks to perform for each release. For general information about Apache releases you may also consult
      <tc:link label="Publishing Maven Artifacts" link="http://www.apache.org/dev/publishing-maven-artifacts.html"
               image="fa-external-link"/>.

      <ul>
        <li>Preparation</li>

        <li>You need to add your GPG keys in <tc:link label="Subversion"
                                                      link="https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/myfaces/keys/KEYS"
                                                      image="fa-external-link"/>
          and the <tc:link label="Apache site" link="https://www.apache.org/dist/myfaces/KEYS"
                           image="fa-external-link"/> before a release.
        </li>

        <li>Ensure that all open bugs and issues in <tc:link label="Jira" link="https://issues.apache.org/jira/"
                                                             image="fa-external-link"/> have been either fixed
          or moved to an other release version.
        </li>

        <li>Ensure that all examples are working with the release candidate.
        </li>

        <li>Check the scheduled version number against "semantic versioning".
        </li>

        <li>Post a note and ask for problems with the release candidate (see {{Preparation template}} below).
        </li>

        <li>Install (or unpack) a jdk 1.4 on your computer (only for Tobago 1.0.x).
        </li>

        <li>Please switch to a jdk depending of the version to build:
        </li>

        <li>for Tobago 1.0.x use jdk 1.5 or 1.6 for build and 1.7 for deployment.
        </li>

        <li>for Tobago 1.5.x use jdk 1.7.
        </li>

        <li>for Tobago 2.x and higher use jdk 1.8.
        </li>

        <li>Perform basic checks on an unmodified checkout for all modules:

          <pre><code class="language-bash"># for Tobago 1.0.x
$ mvn checkstyle:check rat:check -Pall-modules

# for Tobago 1.5.x and higher
$ mvn clean install -Pall-modules &amp;&amp; mvn checkstyle:check apache-rat:check animal-sniffer:check -Pall-modules

# for Tobago 2.0.9 and higher
$ mvn clean install &amp;&amp; mvn checkstyle:check apache-rat:check animal-sniffer:check dependency-check:check

# for Tobago 3.0.0 and higher
$ mvn clean install -Pall-modules &amp;&amp; mvn checkstyle:check apache-rat:check animal-sniffer:check dependency-check:check -Pall-modules

# for Tobago 4.2.0 and higher
$ mvn clean install &amp;&amp; mvn checkstyle:check apache-rat:check animal-sniffer:check dependency-check:check
</code></pre>
        </li>

        <li>Check version info in this file manually:
          <pre><code
              class="language-bash">$ tobago-core/src/main/java/org/apache/myfaces/tobago/internal/taglib/component/package-info.java</code></pre>
        </li>

        <li>Building the Release (Tobago 1.0.x to 2.0.8) [<tc:badge value="TODO"
                                                                    markup="warning"/>: migrate this docs to git]
        </li>

        <li>Prepare the release with:

          <pre><code class="language-bash">$ mvn release:prepare -Pall-modules</code></pre>
        </li>

        <li>Check out a fresh copy of the svn tag:

          <pre><code class="language-bash">cd ..
svn co https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/myfaces/tobago/tags/tobago-&lt;version>
cd tobago-&lt;version>
</code></pre>
        </li>

        <li>Deploy the fresh copy to the Nexus repository with the apache-release profile (we are not using release:perform here, because of some different options):

          <pre><code class="language-bash"># for Tobago 1.0.x
# "install" with Java 1.6 and Maven 2
$ mvn install -Papache-release,jdk14retro,generate-assembly --no-plugin-updates -Dnon-default-modules -Djava14.home=\${java14.jre}
# "deploy" with Java 1.7 and Maven 3 (hotfix: also comment out the maven-apt-plugin stuff)
$ mvn deploy -Papache-release,generate-assembly --no-plugin-updates -Dnon-default-modules

# for Tobago 1.5.x to 2.0.8
$ mvn deploy -Papache-release,generate-assembly --no-plugin-updates -Dnon-default-modules
</code></pre>
        </li>

        <li>Building the Release (Tobago 2.0.9 and higher)
        </li>

        <li>Prepare and perform the release with:

          <pre><code class="language-bash">$ mvn release:prepare
$ mvn release:perform
</code></pre>
        </li>

        <li>Staging repository
        </li>

        <li><i>Close</i> the repository on the <tc:link label="Nexus" link="https://repository.apache.org/"
                                                        image="fa-external-link"/> instance for staging (you will receive a mail with the staging location).
        </li>

        <li>Update the staging and snapshot version on tobago-vm.apache.org
        </li>

        <li>Voting
        </li>

        <li>Propose a vote on the dev list with the staging location (see {{Vote template}} below).
        </li>

        <li>For a positive result wait at least 72 hours.
        </li>

        <li>Once a vote is successful, post the result to the dev list.
        </li>

        <li>Publishing
        </li>

        <li><i>Release</i> the version in <tc:link label="Jira" link="https://issues.apache.org/jira/"
                                                   image="fa-external-link"/> and close all resolved issues for the release.
        </li>

        <li><i>Release</i> the staging repository on the <tc:link label="Nexus" link="https://repository.apache.org/"
                                                                  image="fa-external-link"/> instance.
        </li>

        <li>Copy the download artifacts from the repository to the site (see script <tc:link
            label="release-artifacts.sh" link="./release-artifacts.sh"/>).
        </li>

        <li>Add the release version and date to the <tc:link label="Apache Committee Report Helper"
                                                             link="https://reporter.apache.org/addrelease.html?myfaces"
                                                             image="fa-external-link"/>.
        </li>

        <li>Update the release and staging version on tobago-vm.apache.org
        </li>

        <li>Building the site
        </li>

        <li>Updating the release and version information in the APT files of trunk, e. g.:

          <!--todo this has changed!-->
          <pre><code class="language-bash">src/site/apt/api.apt
src/site/apt/download.apt
src/site/apt/index.apt
src/site/resources/doap_tobago.rdf</code></pre>
        </li>

        <li>Note: The site can only be build correctly on file systems that supports to differ upper-/lower-case.
          This is not the default on Windows and Mac OS X machines.
          On Mac OS X you can mount a virtual filesystem (sparse bundle) that supports upper-/lower-case with the
          Disk Utility.

          <pre><code class="language-bash">$ TOBAGO_SITE=/Volumes/tobago-site
$ cd $TOBAGO_SITE
$ git clone https://github.com/apache/myfaces-tobago tobago-master
$ svn co https://svn.apache.org/repos/asf/myfaces/site/publish/tobago tobago-publish
$ cd tobago-master
$ export MAVEN_OPTS="-Xmx1500m \${MAVEN_OPTS}"
$ mvn clean package -Pattach-source
$ mvn site:site
$ mvn site:stage -DstagingDirectory=$TOBAGO_SITE/tobago-publish</code></pre>
        </li>

        <li>Call "reformat code" on all *.html file in $TOBAGO_SITE/tobago-publish in the IDE
          (the generated code has the main content in only one single line).
        </li>

        <li>Update the site after the distribution is on the Apache mirrors available.
        </li>

        <li>Unpack and commit the API Docs of the release with the update.sh (or update-1.5.sh) script in
          /Volumes/tobago-site/tobago-publish.
        </li>

        <li>Remove old download artifacts from the site (see script <tc:link label="drop-artifacts.sh"
                                                                             link="./drop-artifacts.sh"/>).
          Older releases are automatic available in the <tc:link label=" archive"
                                                                 link="http://archive.apache.org/dist/myfaces/"
                                                                 image="fa-external-link"/>.
        </li>

        <li>Remove old snapshots in the maven snapshot repository. This is done automatically, it is only needed, when
          there are dead development ends, e. g. last alpha or beta version like 3.0.0-beta-2-SNAPSHOT which
          will no longer developed.
        </li>

        <li>Create and send announcement (see {{Announcement template}} below).
        </li>
      </ul>

    </tc:section>

    <tc:section label="Preparation template">

      Send to: <tc:link label="MyFaces Development"
                        link="mailto:MyFaces Development &lt;dev@myfaces.apache.org>"
                        image="fa-external-link"/>

      <i>Replace the variable parts like &lt;version></i>.

      <pre><code>Subject: [Tobago] Preparation for the &lt;version> release

Hi, folks,

I plan to build the &lt;version> of Tobago soon.

If you know any blocking problems with the current SNAPSHOT, give me a hint.

Regards,
  &lt;sender></code></pre>

    </tc:section>

    <tc:section label="Vote template">

      Send to: <tc:link link="mailto:MyFaces Development &lt;dev@myfaces.apache.org>" label="MyFaces Development"
                        image="fa-pencil"/>

      <i>Replace the variable parts like &lt;version></i>.

      <pre><code>Subject: [VOTE] Release Tobago &lt;version>

Hello,

I would like to release Tobago &lt;version>.

Major changes since last release are:

&lt;insert list>

&lt;use one of>
&lt;a> This is a MAJOR release and may contain incompatible API changes.
&lt;b> This is a MINOR release with new functionality in a backwards-compatible manner.
&lt;c> This is a PATCH release with backwards-compatible bug fixes.

For a detail list please consult the release notes at:

https://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?projectId=12310273&amp;version=&lt;version_id_from_jira>

The version is available at the staging repository (Nexus) at:

https://repository.apache.org/content/repositories/orgapachemyfaces-&lt;id_from_nexus>/

Please vote now! (The vote is open for 72h.)

[ ] +1
[ ] +0
[ ] -1

Regards,
&lt;sender>

</code></pre>

    </tc:section>

    <tc:section label="Announcement template">
      For all versions send to:
      <tc:link link="mailto:MyFaces Discussion &lt;users@myfaces.apache.org\>" label="MyFaces Discussion"
               image="fa-pencil"/>
      Only for major versions send to:
      <tc:link link="mailto:Apache Announces &lt;announce@apache.org\>" label="Apache Announces"
               image="fa-pencil"/>

      <i>Replace the variable parts like &lt;version\></i>.

      <pre><code>Subject: [ANNOUNCE] Apache Tobago &lt;version> released

The Apache MyFaces team is pleased to announce the release of Apache
Tobago &lt;version>.

Apache Tobago is a component library for JavaServer Faces (JSF) that
allows to write web-applications without the need of coding HTML, CSS
and JavaScript

Main new features
-----------------

&lt;list of main new features here or remove this section>

Changes
-------

Please check the release notes at
http://issues.apache.org/jira/secure/ReleaseNote.jspa?projectId=12310273&amp;styleName=Html&amp;version=&lt;versionidfromjira>
for a full list of the changes in this version.

Known limitations and bugs
--------------------------

&lt;add main limitations and known bugs here or remove this section>

For more information about Apache Tobago, please visit
http://myfaces.apache.org/tobago/.

Have fun,
-The MyFaces team
</code></pre>

    </tc:section>

  </tc:section>

</ui:composition>
