<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!--
 * Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
 * contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
 * this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
 * The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
 * (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
 * the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 *      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 * limitations under the License.
-->

<ui:composition template="/main.xhtml"
                xmlns:tc="http://myfaces.apache.org/tobago/component"
                xmlns:ui="http://java.sun.com/jsf/facelets">

  <ui:param name="title" value="Output Controls"/>

  <tc:label value="_Single Label"/>

  <tc:out label="Phone Number" value="+1 234 567890">
    <tc:gridLayoutConstraint columnSpan="2"/>
  </tc:out>

  <tc:out value="Lorem ipsum dolor sit amet, consectetuer adipiscing elit. Quisque consequat, libero eget porta mattis,
  risus velit congue magna, at posuere sem orci vitae turpis. Integer pulvinar. Cras libero. Proin vestibulum tempor
  urna. Nulla odio nisl, auctor vitae, faucibus pharetra, feugiat eget, justo. Suspendisse at tellus non justo dictum
  tincidunt. Aenean placerat nunc id tortor. Donec mollis ornare pede. Vestibulum ut arcu et dolor auctor varius.
  Praesent tincidunt, eros quis vulputate facilisis, orci turpis sollicitudin justo, id faucibus nunc orci sed purus.
  Proin ligula erat, sollicitudin id, rhoncus eget, nonummy sit amet, risus. Aenean arcu lorem, facilisis et, posuere
  sed, ultrices tincidunt, nunc. Sed ac massa. Quisque lacinia. Donec quis nibh.
  Aenean ac diam eget mi feugiat pulvinar. Etiam orci. Aliquam nec arcu nec eros ornare pulvinar. Sed nec velit.
  Ut ut orci. Nulla varius. Maecenas feugiat. Etiam varius ipsum et orci. Ut consectetuer odio sit amet libero.
  Nulla iaculis adipiscing purus. Maecenas a sed."/>

  <tc:flowLayout>
    <tc:label value="messages tag"/>
    <tc:messages/>
  </tc:flowLayout>

  <tc:flowLayout>
    <tc:label value="image tag"/>
    <tc:image value="image/tobago_head.png" width="150" height="83"/>
  </tc:flowLayout>

</ui:composition>
