<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!--
 * Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
 * contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
 * this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
 * The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
 * (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
 * the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 *      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 * limitations under the License.
-->

<ui:composition template="/main.xhtml"
                xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
                xmlns:tc="http://myfaces.apache.org/tobago/component"
                xmlns:ui="jakarta.faces.facelets">
  <p>This is the demo and documentation of <b>Tobago #{serverInfo.version}</b>.
    It shows the components and concepts of Tobago and is also a main part of the documentation.</p>
  <p>If you want to migrate from an older version, you'll find further information in the
    <tc:link label="migration guide" outcome="/content/000-intro/50-migration/Migration.xhtml"/>.</p>
  <p>If you want to start this demo on your local machine, have a look at the section 'Local Demo'.</p>
  <tc:section label="Description">
    <p>Tobago is a user interface framework for developing web applications.
      The technical basis of the framework is JavaServer Faces. The main core represents a theme oriented
      JSF Render Kit.</p>
    <tc:section label="Basic Controls">
      <p>Tobago provides all standard controls of HTML like inputs, textareas, radiobuttons, checkboxes and buttons.
        Additionally Tobago provides you with complex controls, which are not natively supported by simple HTML,
        including sheets, trees and tabs.</p>
    </tc:section>
    <tc:section label="Validation">
      <p>The main goal of Tobago is the development of applications which are interactive from the users point of view.
        Tobago makes it easy to validate input and helps the user to enter correct data.</p>
    </tc:section>
    <tc:section label="Layout">
      <p>Tobago provides several advanced layout managers to fit for specific use cases by using CSS3 and HTML5.
        This includes a 12 columns layout from <tc:link label="Bootstrap" link="https://getbootstrap.com/"/>
        and a flex layout which replace the old grid layout from Tobago 2.</p>
    </tc:section>
    <tc:section label="Versioning">
      <p>The Tobago project is using <tc:link label="semantic versioning" link="https://semver.org/"/> since past 2016.</p>
      <p>This will lead into more growing minor version number compared to the past.</p>
    </tc:section>
  </tc:section>

</ui:composition>
