<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>

<!--
 * Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one or more
 * contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file distributed with
 * this work for additional information regarding copyright ownership.
 * The ASF licenses this file to You under the Apache License, Version 2.0
 * (the "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance with
 * the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at
 *
 *      http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0
 *
 * Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
 * distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
 * WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
 * See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
 * limitations under the License.
-->

<ui:composition template="/main.xhtml"
                xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"
                xmlns:tc="http://myfaces.apache.org/tobago/component"
                xmlns:ui="jakarta.faces.facelets">

  <tc:section label="Migration from Tobago 1.5 to 2.0">
    <p>Tobago 2.0 has some API changes compared to Tobago 1.5.</p>
    <p>The most changes are in the tree API, which is more easy to use, but also more flexible.</p>

    <tc:section label="Artifacts (JAR-Files)">
      <p>The following JAR files are no longer needed. They have to be removed from the project (depends on your build
        system).</p>
      <ul>
        <li>tobago-taglib-extension-&lt;version>.jar</li>
        <li>tobago-facelets-&lt;version>.jar</li>
      </ul>
    </tc:section>

    <tc:section label="CSP">
      <p>Tobago supports Content Security Policy (CSP) to prevent cross-site scripting (XSS) and related attacks. It is
        specified by W3C. In short: The HTML page doesn't contain any JavaScript or CSS information. All allowed sources
        for JavaScript, CSS and other resources have to be declared in special header. If you have own renderers or own
        JavaScript in your application, this code also needs to support CSP, to use this feature.</p>

      <b>Warning:</b>
      <p>CSP requires a different handling of JavaScript and other resources. If you use own JavaScript in the HTML page
        or including resources from other sites you may need to adapt your application, (or turn this feature off).</p>

      <b>Configuration</b>
      <p>To add sites to the CSP headers, add <code class="language-markup">&lt;directive></code> tags to
        <code class="language-markup">&lt;content-security-policy></code> in the <code>tobago-config.xml</code>.</p>
      <p>To turn off CSP, add an empty <code class="language-markup">&lt;content-security-policy mode="off"></code>
        tag in the configuration. For development, you may also use mode="report-only", which sets the appropriate
        header.</p>
    </tc:section>

    <tc:section label="Clickjacking">
      <p>By default, it no longer possible to use a Tobago application in an HTML frame or iframe. This is to protect
        against <tc:link label="Clickjacking" link="https://www.owasp.org/index.php/Clickjacking"/>. To disable this
        feature consult the <code>tobago-config.xml</code> and set
        <code class="language-markup">&lt;prevent-frame-attacks>false&lt;/prevent-frame-attacks></code>.</p>
    </tc:section>

    <tc:section label="Java-API">
      <p>The class
        <code>org.apache.myfaces.tobago.model.TreeState</code> which has been deprecated in 1.5.x is used in 2.0.x
        with a changed API. Please check the occurrences.</p>
      <p>Class <code>org.apache.myfaces.tobago.component.UIFileInput</code> has been renamed to
        <code>org.apache.myfaces.tobago.component.UIFile</code>.</p>
    </tc:section>

    <tc:section label="Renderer classes">
      <p>The set of existing renderers has been repacked from
        <code>org.apache.myfaces.tobago.renderkit.html.scarborough.standard.tag</code> to
        <code>org.apache.myfaces.tobago.renderkit.html.standard.standard.tag</code>.</p>
      <p>If you have an own theme with own renderer classes implemented, which are extending the Tobago renderer
        classes, you will need to adapt the package name of the base classes.</p>
    </tc:section>

    <tc:section label="Facelets">
      <p>Tobago 2.0.x is using Facelets 2.0. When still using Facelets 1.1 in the current application, this must be
        removed:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Remove facelets JAR (e.g. <code>jsf-facelets-1.1.14.jar</code>) from the library.</li>
        <li>Remove <code class="language-markup">&lt;view-handler></code>
          <code class="language-markup">org.apache.myfaces.tobago.internal.application.ViewHandlerImpl</code>
          <code class="language-markup">&lt;/view-handler></code> from the <code>faces-config.xml</code> file.
        </li>
        <li>Remove the parameter <code>javax.faces.DISABLE_FACELET_JSF_VIEWHANDLER</code> from the <code>web.xml</code>
          file.
        </li>
        <li>Remove or replace the <code>facelets.*</code> entries from the <code>web.xml</code> file.</li>
        <li>Rename all JSTL declarations from <code>xmlns:c="http://java.sun.com/jstl/core"</code> to
          <code>xmlns:c="http://java.sun.com/jsp/jstl/core"</code> in the Facelets.
        </li>
        <li>Ensure the version of the faces-config tag in the <code>faces-config.xml</code> is at least 2.0.</li>
      </ul>
    </tc:section>

    <tc:section label="Deprecated">
      <p>There are also @Deprecated annotations in the code and some logging warning when using deprecated code via the
        Deprecation logging category. Before and after migrating you should check your application about that.</p>
      <p>For the migration phase you may add the tobago-deprecation.jar as dependency to your project. It contains
        classes that has been moved (e.g. to the new internal package) or removed. So you can resolve any migration
        steps step by step. It is not recommended to use the tobago-deprecation.jar for production.</p>
    </tc:section>

    <tc:section label="Internal">
      <p>The package <code>org.apache.myfaces.tobago.internal</code> contains classes that should not be used directly
        in an application. This classes may change in minor revisions without announcement. Classes in the package
        <code>org.apache.myfaces.tobago.renderkit</code> are handled in the same manner.</p>
    </tc:section>

    <tc:section label="Tag Library">
      <p>The main changes in the tag library are that the deprecated facets "resizeAction" and "menupopup" has been
        removed.</p>
    </tc:section>

    <tc:section label="Suggest">
      <p>Please use the new <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:suggest></code> tag instead of using the inline
        attribute inside of <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:in></code>.</p>
      <demo-highlight language="markup">deprecated:
&lt;tc:in suggestMethod="\#{bean.method}"/>

replacement:
&lt;tc:in>
  &lt;tc:suggest suggestMethod="\#{bean.method}"/>
&lt;/tc:in></demo-highlight>
      <demo-highlight language="markup">deprecated:
&lt;tx:in suggestMethod="\#{bean.method}"/>

replacement:
&lt;tx:in>
  &lt;tc:suggest suggestMethod="\#{bean.method}"/>
&lt;/tx:in></demo-highlight>
    </tc:section>

    <tc:section label="Tree">
      <ul>
        <li>The Tree now extends a UIData.</li>
        <li>The <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:treeData></code> tag shouldn't longer be used.</li>
        <li>The <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:treeNode></code> has no longer the attributes: "selected",
          "expanded", "marked", "treeMarkedListener", "treeExpansionListener"
        </li>
        <li>The class <code>org.apache.myfaces.tobago.model.TreeState</code> is no longer deprecated, but the
          functionality has slightly been changed.
        </li>
      </ul>
    </tc:section>

    <tc:section label="Date/Time">
      <p>The date and time input controls have been refactored. The old (deprecated) functionality can be activated via
        <code>tobago-config.xml</code>.</p>
      <p>If using the new: <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:date></code> can do the job of
        <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:time></code>. You only need to set the
        <code class="language-markup">&lt;f:convertDateTime type="time"></code> inside the
        <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:date></code>.</p>
    </tc:section>

    <tc:section label="ToolBar with dropDownMenu facet">
      <p>Usually you need to set <code>omit="true"</code> in the
        <code class="language-markup">&lt;tc:toolBarCommand></code>, to avoid a submit.</p>
    </tc:section>

    <tc:section label="Configuration">
      <p>To define an own theme, please use now a file <code>tobago-config.xml</code> instead of
        <code>tobago-theme.xml</code>. The content of <code>tobago-theme.xml</code> is a subset of the
        <code>tobago-config.xml</code>, you have only to change the root node.</p>
      <p>Please use the
        <tc:link label="tobago-config-2.0.xsd" link="https://myfaces.apache.org/tobago/tobago-config-2.0.xsd"/>
        to validate the configuration.</p>
    </tc:section>

    <tc:section label="JavaScript">
      <p>Date/Time/Calendar components: The JavaScript for this components has been refactored. All method have now a
        namespace and are using jQuery. JavaScript code has been removed from the renderers. For data the HTML5 data
        attribute is used instead of directly coding it into the event handler, or using hidden input fields.</p>
    </tc:section>

    <tc:section label="CSS">
      <p>The class <code class="language-css">tobago-sheet-outer</code> is renamed to
        <code class="language-css">tobago-sheet</code>.<br/>
        The class <code class="language-css">tobago-sheet-headerSpacerOuter</code> is renamed to
        <code class="language-css">tobago-sheet-headerResize</code>.<br/>
        The class <code class="language-css">tobago-sheet-headerSpacer</code> is no longer needed.<br/>
        The class <code class="language-css">tobago-sheet-headerSpacer-markup-resizable</code> is no longer needed.</p>
    </tc:section>

    <tc:section label="Internal">
      <p>The facet name of the picker popup is now named "popup" instead of "pickerPopup".</p>
    </tc:section>
  </tc:section>
</ui:composition>
